---
layout: post
title: "Azure"
---

# Understanding Azure: A Comprehensive Insight

Azure is a renowned cloud computing platform developed by Microsoft, which is in line with other eminent cloud services such as Google Cloud and AWS. For those who are unfamiliar with Azure, assimilating its myriad functionalities might initially seem overwhelming. However, in my journey, it has emerged as a remarkable platform for initiating cloud-based projects. Over the previous year, I have leveraged Azure to deploy virtual machines, orchestrate WordPress sites, and establish a jump box to bolster security. In this blog, I will unveil some valuable insights acquired through my hands-on experience with Azure.

## Transitioning from GitHub Pages to Azure

I have been leveraging GitHub Pages for over a year to craft free blogs for my diverse projects. It serves as a stellar platform for developing and disseminating content. To commence, I forked the Jekyll repository from Barry Clark and adhered to the accompanying tutorial to orchestrate GitHub pages. Once my website was operational on GitHub, the exploration of Azure commenced.

To garner a profound understanding of Azure, I delved into the extensive documentation provided by Microsoft and dedicated considerable time to hands-on practice. With the aid of Azure web apps, I managed to deploy [my website](https://pkharsimran.github.io/) on Azure, incorporating my custom domains. Furthermore, Azure’s analytical services enabled me to procure detailed data about my website’s traffic, analyzing user visits and their duration. In this blog, I will share my journey transitioning from GitHub Pages to Azure, providing essential tips to ensure a seamless shift.

### Advantages of Using Azure Static Web Apps

- **Global Hosting:** Azure offers the option to deploy your site closer to your targeted customers, ensuring enhanced speed and accessibility.
- **Language Flexibility:** Azure supports any [front-end language](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/front-end-frameworks), broadening developmental possibilities.
- **Pay-as-you-grow Model:** With Azure, my domain merely cost me $20, and the hosting expenses are just $1 monthly.

Stay tuned as I delve deeper into my experiences and learnings, providing you with actionable insights and tips to optimize your journey with Azure.

 
